Introduction to the Spring Framework
      What is Spring?
            Spring is an open-source Java framework that simplifies the development of Java applications by providing infrastructure such as Dependency Injection (DI), Inversion of Control (IoC), Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP), web development support, database integration, security, and much more.
            Every major feature in Spring was created to solve a problem that Java developers were facing.
            Spring lets developers focus on writing business logic instead of spending time creating and managing the application's infrastructure.
            For example, instead of writing code to manually create every object and connect them together, Spring can do it automatically.

      What is a Framework?
            Before understanding Spring, let's understand what a framework is.
            Imagine you are building a house.
            Without a framework:
                You make every brick yourself.
                Build every wall.
                Design plumbing.
                Install electricity.
            With a framework:
                The foundation already exists.
                Plumbing guidelines are provided.
                Electrical wiring has standards.
                You mainly focus on building your rooms.
            Programming is similar.
            Without a framework:
                You write lots of repetitive code:
                    Object creation
                    Configuration
                    Database connection
                    HTTP request handling
                    Transactions
                    Logging
                    Security
             A framework provides these facilities so you can focus on your application's business logic.

      Before Spring, how were Java applications developed?
            To appreciate Spring, you need to know what Java development looked like in the late 1990s and early 2000s.
            Java Enterprise applications mainly used:
              Java Servlets
              JSP (JavaServer Pages)
              JDBC
              Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB)

      What was famous before Spring?
              The dominant enterprise technology was EJB (Enterprise JavaBeans).
              EJB was part of the J2EE (Java 2 Enterprise Edition) platform.
              At that time, if a company wanted to build enterprise applications like:
                    Banking
                    Airlines
                    Government systems
                    Insurance
                    ERP
              they almost always used EJB.
              It was considered the "official" enterprise Java solution.

      Problems with EJB
              Although EJB was powerful, it had many drawbacks.
              1. Very complicated
                    A simple service required many files.
                    Example:
                        CustomerBean.java
                        CustomerHome.java
                        CustomerRemote.java
                        ejb-jar.xml
                        server configuration
                     Even a small feature needed several classes and XML files.

              2. Heavyweight
                      Applications had to run inside expensive application servers like:
                        IBM WebSphere
                        BEA WebLogic
                        Oracle Application Server
                      These consumed lots of memory and resources.

              3. Difficult testing
                      EJB components required an application server.
                      Testing simple business logic was difficult.

              4. Tight coupling
                      Business classes depended heavily on EJB APIs.
                  Example:
                      public class CustomerBean
                              implements SessionBean
                  Your business class became dependent on EJB interfaces.

              5. Lots of boilerplate code
                       Developers spent more time configuring the application than solving business problems.

        Who founded Spring?
              Spring was created by Rod Johnson.
              He was an Australian software engineer.
              In 2002, he wrote a book:
                      Expert One-on-One J2EE Design and Development
              In that book, he criticized many complexities of EJB and proposed a simpler way of developing enterprise Java applications.
              The example framework in his book eventually evolved into Spring.
              Spring Framework 1.0 was officially released in 2004.

        Why was Spring founded?
              Spring was created to solve problems like:
                      Too much XML configuration
                      Tight coupling
                      Difficult testing
                      Heavy application servers
                      Complex object creation
                      Boilerplate code
              Rod Johnson believed:
                      Enterprise Java should be simple.
              That philosophy still guides Spring today.

        Why is it called "Spring"?
              The name was chosen because it represented:
                    a fresh beginning
                    renewal
                    a new approach to enterprise Java
              Just as spring is the season when new life begins, the Spring Framework was intended to bring a fresh, lightweight way of building Java applications compared to the heavy EJB model.
              1There isn't a deeper technical meaning behind the name.

        How was Spring different?
              Let's compare them.
                    | EJB                         | Spring                                                  |
                    | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
                    | Heavyweight                 | Lightweight                                             |
                    | Complex                     | Simple                                                  |
                    | Required application server | Can run almost anywhere                                 |
                    | Difficult testing           | Easy unit testing                                       |
                    | Tight coupling              | Loose coupling                                          |
                    | Large XML configuration     | Initially XML, later annotations and Java configuration |
                    | Difficult object management | Automatic object management (IoC Container)             |
                    | Hard dependency management  | Dependency Injection                                    |


        The biggest innovation of Spring
                The most revolutionary feature wasn't Spring MVC.
                It wasn't Spring Boot.
                It wasn't Spring Security.
                It was Inversion of Control (IoC) together with Dependency Injection (DI).
                This completely changed how Java applications were structured.
                Instead of writing:
                      Car car = new Car();
                Spring says:
                      "Don't create it yourself. I'll create it and give it to you when you need it."
                This simple idea made applications:
                      loosely coupled
                      easier to maintain
                      easier to test
                      easier to extend

        What is Spring well known for?
        Spring is famous for several things.
        
        1. Dependency Injection (DI)
                Automatically providing required objects instead of manually creating them.
        2. Inversion of Control (IoC)
                Spring manages the lifecycle of objects (called beans) and controls their creation, wiring, and destruction.
        3. Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP)
                Helps separate cross-cutting concerns like:
                      Logging
                      Security
                      Transactions
                      Auditing
                without cluttering business logic.
        4. Spring MVC
                A framework for building web applications and REST APIs.
        5. Spring Boot
                One of Spring's most popular projects.
                It enables developers to create production-ready applications with minimal configuration, using features like auto-configuration and embedded web servers.
        6. Data Access
                Spring integrates seamlessly with technologies like JDBC, JPA, and Hibernate, reducing boilerplate code for database operations.
        7. Security
                Spring Security provides authentication, authorization, and protection against common web vulnerabilities.
        8. Modular Design
                Spring isn't a single monolithic framework. It's a collection of modules, so you only include what your application needs.
                Examples include:
                        Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch.

        Important concepts you'll learn in Spring
                Everything in Spring revolves around a few core ideas:
                    1. Bean
                          A Java object whose lifecycle is managed by Spring.
                    2. IoC Container
                          The component responsible for creating, configuring, and managing beans.
                    3. Dependency Injection (DI)
                          A technique where the container supplies an object's dependencies instead of the object creating them itself.
                    4. Configuration
                          Telling Spring which beans to create and how they relate. This can be done using XML, annotations, or Java configuration classes.
                    5. Bean Scopes
                          Define how long a bean lives, such as one shared instance (singleton) or a new instance for each request (prototype), among others.
                    6. Spring Boot
                          A project built on top of Spring that dramatically simplifies application setup and configuration.
  
        Why is Spring so popular today?
                Spring has become the dominant framework for Java enterprise development because it enables developers to build applications that are:
                      Loosely coupled, making components easier to replace or modify.
                      Highly testable, thanks to Dependency Injection.
                      Modular, allowing you to use only the parts you need.
                      Scalable, suitable for both small services and large enterprise systems.
                      Productive, especially with Spring Boot reducing setup effort.
                      Backed by a large ecosystem and a strong community.
                Today, if you look at backend development in Java, Spring—especially Spring Boot—is the standard choice in many companies.

Summary
      Spring is an open-source framework that simplifies Java application development by managing infrastructure concerns.
      Before Spring, enterprise Java development mainly relied on EJB, which was powerful but complex and heavyweight.
      Rod Johnson created Spring to offer a simpler, lightweight alternative focused on clean design and easier testing.
      Spring's core philosophy is "focus on business logic; let the framework handle the plumbing."
      The foundation of Spring is IoC (Inversion of Control) and Dependency Injection (DI), which enable loosely coupled, maintainable, and testable applications.
      Spring has grown into a rich ecosystem that includes Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security, and Spring Boot.



Doubts & Questions:
      Problems of EJB and how spring overcomes it?
          1)As ejb was more complicated how does spring address this problem?
          2)You said ejb is heavy weight and want to run only in application servers, but actually every applications should have run only in big servers right? So what do you mean by that? So whats different with spring?
          3) As the codes are complicated, testing is also difficult with EJB?
      I thought VM ware founded and created spring, does rod was working there while proposing this idea?
      Annotations are introduced mostly as an alternative for xml based configuration?
      Does spring MVC, spring boot are different libraries in the spring framework?
      Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch.
      What does everything is in the above in spring is? A library? or just a modules? or what else is that?
      IoC container will also be a set of java codes right?


1) As EJB was more complicated, how does Spring address this problem?
      Spring simplified enterprise Java development in several ways.
      EJB way
            Suppose you wanted to create a service.
            You often needed:
                  A Bean class
                  Home Interface
                  Remote Interface
                  XML configuration
                  EJB Container configuration
                  Deployment descriptors
            Something that should have taken one class could easily require multiple files.

      Spring way
            The same service could simply be:
                  @Service
                  public class UserService {
                  }
            Or even earlier versions of Spring (before annotations):
                  <bean id="userService"
                        class="com.example.UserService"/>
            That's it.
                  No special interfaces.
                  No inheritance.
                  No application-server-specific code.
            Your class remains a Plain Old Java Object (POJO).
            public class UserService {
            }
            Notice something?
                  It doesn't extend anything.
                  It doesn't implement Spring interfaces.
                  This is one of Spring's biggest design philosophies.
            Your business classes should remain normal Java classes.

            Why is that better?
                  Suppose tomorrow you stop using Spring.
                  Your class still works because it is just Java.
                  With EJB, your business class itself depended on EJB APIs.

2) You said EJB is heavyweight and runs only in application servers. But every application runs on servers, right?
            Excellent observation.
            This is one of the most misunderstood topics.
            The word server here has two meanings.
            Meaning 1
                        A physical machine (or cloud VM)
                  Example:
                        AWS EC2
                        Azure VM
                        Your office computer
                  Every backend application ultimately runs on some machine.
                  This is not what we mean.

            Meaning 2
                        An Application Server
                        This is software.
                  Examples:
                        WebLogic
                        WebSphere
                        JBoss
                        GlassFish
                  These are Java programs whose job is to run enterprise applications.
                  Think of them as a very advanced runtime environment.

            Before Spring
                  Suppose you developed an EJB application.
                  You couldn't simply do:
                        java MyApplication.jar
                  It wouldn't work.
                  Instead, you had to deploy it into an application server.
                                +----------------------+
                                | WebLogic             |
                                |                      |
                                |   Your EJB App       |
                                |                      |
                                +----------------------+
                  The application server provides:
                        EJB container
                        Transactions
                        Security
                        Remote communication
                        Object lifecycle
                        Thread management
                  Without that application server, the EJB application couldn't function.
      
            Why are they called heavyweight?
                  Because application servers were huge.
                  They contained:
                        EJB engine, Messaging engine, Naming service, Transaction manager, Security manager, Deployment engine, Web server, Many enterprise services
                  They consumed a lot of:
                        Memory
                        CPU
                        Startup time
                  Sometimes starting WebLogic could take minutes.

            Spring's approach
                  Spring removed this dependency.
                  Instead of depending on an application server,
                  Spring itself provided many of those services as Java libraries.
                  Instead of
                        Application
                              ↓
                        Application Server
                  you now had
                        Application
                              ↓
                        Spring Libraries
                              ↓
                             JVM
                  Much lighter.

            Then what about Tomcat?
                        Good question.
                        Tomcat is not an application server in the traditional Java EE sense.
                        It is a Servlet Container (or web server for Java servlets).
                        Spring MVC applications commonly run on Tomcat.
                        Spring Boot even embeds Tomcat inside your application.
                        So instead of deploying your application into Tomcat, your application starts Tomcat itself.
                        We'll learn this in detail when we study Spring Boot.


3) As the code is complicated, testing is also difficult with EJB?
            Partly, but that's not the whole reason.
            Imagine this EJB:
                  public class PaymentBean implements SessionBean
            This class expects an EJB Container(Session bean).
            Without the container, many methods simply don't work.
            So testing becomes difficult because you first need:
                  WebLogic
                  JBoss
                  GlassFish
            running.
            Spring changed this.
                  A Spring service is usually just:
                        public class PaymentService {
                        }
                  Now testing is easy.
                        PaymentService service = new PaymentService();
                        assertEquals(...);
                              No server.
                              No container.
                              No deployment.
                  Just Java.
                  This made unit testing much easier.


4) I thought VMware founded Spring. Did Rod Johnson work there?
            Another excellent question.
            The timeline is important.
            Step 1 (2002)
                  Rod Johnson wrote the famous book:
                        Expert One-on-One J2EE Design and Development
                  Inside that book, he introduced the ideas that later became Spring.

            Step 2 (2003-2004)
                  Rod and a few developers built the Spring Framework.
                  Version 1.0 was released.
                  At this point Spring was independent.

            Step 3 (2004)
                  Rod Johnson founded Interface21.
                  This company commercially supported Spring.

            Step 4 (2009)
                  Interface21 changed its name to
                  SpringSource.

            Step 5 (2009)
                        VMware acquired SpringSource.
                        Only after Spring had already become successful.
                  So:
                        Rod Johnson created Spring first.
                        VMware acquired the company later.
                        So VMware did not invent Spring.


5) Were annotations introduced mostly as an alternative to XML configuration?
            Yes.
            Initially Spring configuration looked like this:
                  <bean id="userService"
                        class="com.example.UserService"/>
            Large projects ended up with XML files containing thousands of lines.
            Developers complained.
            Spring responded by introducing annotation-based configuration.
            Instead of XML:
                  <bean .../>

            you now write:
                        @Service
                        public class UserService {
                        }
                  or
                        @Component
                        public class UserService {
                        }
                  This makes configuration closer to the code it describes.
                  However, XML is not obsolete. Some legacy projects and certain integration scenarios still use XML, but annotations and Java-based configuration are the modern default.


6) Are Spring MVC and Spring Boot different libraries in Spring?
      Yes.
      Think of Spring as a large ecosystem.
            Spring
            │
            ├── Spring Core
            ├── Spring MVC
            ├── Spring Data
            ├── Spring Security
            ├── Spring Boot
            ├── Spring Batch
            ├── Spring Cloud
      Each solves different problems.

      Spring Core
            Provides:
                  IoC
                  DI
                  Bean management
            This is the foundation.
      Spring MVC
            Provides:
            Controllers
            HTTP request handling
            REST APIs
            Web applications
      Spring Data
            Makes database access easier.
      Spring Security
            Authentication and Authorization.
      Spring Batch
            Large background jobs.
      Spring Cloud
            Microservices support.
      Spring Boot
            Makes configuring and running Spring applications much easier through features like auto-configuration, starter dependencies, and embedded servers. It builds on top of the other Spring projects                rather than replacing them.


7) What are these exactly? Libraries? Modules? Or something else?
            This is an important terminology question.
            Technically, each one is a separate software project, and each project is composed of multiple Java libraries (JAR files).
            From a learner's perspective, people often call them Spring modules because they provide different functional areas.
            For example:
                  Spring Framework
                  │
                  ├── spring-core.jar
                  ├── spring-beans.jar
                  ├── spring-context.jar
                  ├── spring-aop.jar
                  ├── spring-web.jar
                  ├── spring-webmvc.jar
            These JARs together implement different modules.
            So you can think of them like this:
                        Spring Ecosystem
                                │
                                ├── Projects (Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Security, ...)
                                │
                                └── Each project contains one or more Java libraries (.jar files)
            When you add a Maven dependency, you're usually adding one or more of these libraries to your project.


8) IoC Container will also be a set of Java code, right?
      Exactly.
      This is one of the biggest misconceptions beginners have.
      Many people imagine the IoC Container as some magical thing.
      It isn't.
      It is simply a collection of Java classes written by the Spring developers.
      Inside those classes, Spring has implemented logic like:
            Reading configuration (annotations, XML, or Java config)
            Creating Java objects (beans)
            Resolving dependencies between beans
            Managing bean lifecycles
            Storing beans
            Returning beans when requested
      Conceptually, it looks something like this (highly simplified):
                  class SimpleContainer {
                      Map<String, Object> beans = new HashMap<>();
                      public void createBean(Class<?> clazz) {
                          // create object
                          // resolve dependencies
                          // store in map
                      }
                      public Object getBean(String name) {
                          return beans.get(name);
                      }
                  }
      The real Spring IoC Container is far more sophisticated, but at its core it is Java code running on the JVM. There is no special JVM feature for IoC; Spring implements it as a framework.


















